00:11
Hi Vinora, good afternoon. Hello, hello Ajit, good afternoon. How are you doing? How's your Sunday going? Very well, thank you. How is yours? So far so good. Just help my dad out with some stuff around the house. So yeah, it's pretty productive. I must thank you for giving us your time on a Sunday. I know it's not easy, but I really appreciate the fact that you have given us this time.

00:39
Wonderful. Happy to help. Happy to be here and I'm happy to discover some more insights about my behavior through this conversation. Absolutely. Absolutely. So just to give you a brief introduction of myself. So my name is Ajit Menon. I've been working in talent metrics for about 10 years now. I've been using tools like the disk, like the driving forces. I'm certified in these tools as well and a few others.

01:06
But I've been using these tools across different aspects of both corporate life as well as personal life to help people get a deeper understanding of themselves, to help them understand and appreciate themselves as well as other people. And then in terms of overcoming challenges as well, I've conducted trainings, coaching, mentoring sessions. So I can assure you, you're in good hands here. I've been doing this for almost eight, nine years now. And I actually today,

01:35
I do this for everyone from CXOs, 60-year-olds in corporate. And I do this for students as well, as young as 16 years old, where I work with them to help them, like I said, gain a better understanding of themselves, and then see how they can really take that understanding forward to overcome their challenges. Wow, amazing. Yeah, thank you, thank you. So what I can assure you is this discussion is confidential. It is being recorded for quality and training purposes. Right?

02:05
but it will be completely confidential. Okay. I hope you have received the report. There would be about 10 to 14 page report that you might have received, your personal report. I hope you've got that. Yes, yes, I have it with me. In fact, I have it open in front of me right now as well. Superb, superb. So what I'll do is I'll direct you to, you know, specific pages in the report, and then we'll talk about those, and if you have any queries, any clarifications.

02:34
please feel free to ask me anything. There are no right or wrong questions here. There are no right or wrong scores also. This is to get a better understanding of you. So please feel free, like I tell people, this session is completely for you. So make the most of it, get complete clarity. Feel free to interrupt me also, yeah? Right, thank you, thank you, Ajit. Okay, to give you the purpose and to set a context, Vinoda.

03:03
So you had gone through this assessment, right? You've received your report, and now this is the first session that we're going to be having, where I will spend a little bit of time getting to know you, and then take you through some of the findings in your report, address some queries, right? And then we'll also discuss a way forward in terms of anything that you may want to change or improve upon, right? I can share some tips, some guides over there.

03:28
but this can again help you in your personal life across academic success as well as setting yourself up for professional success. Right. This is the context, it's a journey, this is not the last conversation we will be having, right. We will set up a regular touch point so that we can connect and you know I can help you or support you in any way you need, okay. Right, thank you. Okay, wonderful. So

03:54
Just getting to know a little bit about you. Can you tell me about yourself? You know, what is a typical day or a week look like for you? Sure, sure Ajit. So I wake up at different times every day, but it has got to be before 8 o'clock. But I find it difficult to actually have a good exercise regime in the morning because even though I go to sleep thinking that I want to wake up early and

04:23
spend some time doing meditation or yoga. I end up sleeping really late because I do most of my studies in the night. My typical days that I get up, I do my research work. I prepare for presentations. I prepare for presentations that I have to make at my college as well. And I take very few breaks to actually have my lunch or breakfast.

04:52
And in the evening time, I make sure that I'm preparing for the next day. So, yeah, that's how my regular day is. And on the weekends, I would say that I spend a lot of time in church activities in my community and also, you know, at a club that I go to. So I meet people a lot there and I love singing. I play the guitar. I compose. Wonderful.

05:19
So, you know, that's what energizes me on the weekend, but the weekdays are pretty much shocker block for me. And sometimes I get a sense that I'm, you know, going not too much in one particular direction, you know, that thing that I'm all over the place. So yes, I am generating a certain amount of revenue for myself. I am educating myself further, but I don't sense that, that proper sense of direction that I'm heading somewhere. So I need to...

05:48
to work more on setting tangible goals is what I feel. Understood, understood. Yeah. So that's... Are you working a part-time job also? Yes, yes, I am doing my internship at an HR Institute. I want to learn more about recruiting talent acquisition. So I have taken up an internship that is quite close to my college.

06:19
That's really good Vinoda, that indicates that you are willing to invest a lot of time when you see that kind of return coming for your effort and that's really good, that's really helping you learn a lot more. Right, right.

06:36
Can you tell me a little bit about your family? I mean, you don't have to get into too much detail if you don't want to, but just, you know, do you have any siblings? What do your parents do? Sure, sure. So my my mother is a homemaker. She used to be an English teacher, but now she's retired. So she takes classes at home and helps students prepare for their IELTS exams and things of the sort.

07:04
So she does that and I help her from time to time. In fact, when she doesn't need my help, so I end up going there and trying and adding what I think is value. But she's very kind and sweet to me. She doesn't really mind, but I think she sometimes doesn't like it that I do it because she's her own person and she likes to do things her own way.

07:29
So yeah, that's what she does. My dad is someone who is really good at accounts. He helps people with investments and he's also retired from his regular job but he has projects of his own. I have one sister, she's younger than me and she's also in college. She is pursuing a course in anthropology and sociology. She wants to, you know, become a do her masters in social work and go abroad probably to.

07:59
study further about She's very you know she loves working for the human race in all she loves animals and all of that So she's definitely I feel she's going to one day start an NGO for own or she's going to work with the United Nations For the betterment and improvement of some country. Yeah

08:20
That's amazing. I think that's a really noble cause to work for. So, okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.

08:30
What about your friends? These could be friends in the college, childhood friends, friends in your neighborhood. Can you tell me a little bit about your social circle? Sure, I have a lot of friends, but I don't have a particular group that I interact with. Ajit, it's like, you know, lots of people everywhere. So I have lots of friends in college. I have friends at my workplace as well.

08:58
And of course at the workplace, I don't really know who's my friend and who's not my friend because recently I've been having experiences that have made me feel all alone because you know, I've realized that in corporate workspace, it's more competitive. So I don't know if I'll call them my friends, but I have friends in my in the in the society where I live. So my neighbors are

09:23
my age and you know we hang out to play games like badminton etc and I have friends at the club in the community as well. Understood.

09:36
Right. It definitely does seem that you have a very, very wide circle, but there might be only a few people who you might really trust. Yes, absolutely.

09:48
Understood.

09:53
Thank you for sharing this Vinora. You mentioned that you play the guitar, you sing also. So any other hobbies or activities that you like doing that you enjoy doing? Yeah, sure. I love writing. I love connecting with people on social media to understand more about what they do. And since I'm into talent acquisition, I keep trying to do a lot of research online.

10:21
and try to analyze what is it that drives people to do the kind of jobs that they currently do. So I'm interested in knowing, you know, understanding people, understanding the reasons they do things. I also like making friends a lot. I like understanding things about different cultures. I love traveling. So the moment I get some time off,

10:45
is where I plan a trip in advance with my parents or with my friends. Either we go for treks or I like visiting new places. So that's what I love doing.

10:58
Superb. Okay, well, thank you. Thank you very much Vinod for sharing this. The reason we try to get this background or this understanding of people is because while this report will tell you many things about yourself and particularly it will tell you about your behaviors and your motivators, right? I feel that people are, human beings are very, very complex, right? So there are many more things to a person than just the behaviors and motivators and this definitely helps us.

11:28
again a deeper understanding. So right now can you tell me in terms of your education what are you pursuing? What are some of your courses? What are some of the subjects you like? Sure, so I'm right the subjects that I'm studying right now are statistics, economics and English literature. The reason I've still chosen English literature is because of my fondness for the subject but I don't see myself pursuing a career that has literature.

11:55
or you know in it like I don't want to pursue journalism or something like that. But I definitely it is my aim to study economics a bit further. And at the same time I am looking to see how I can work with people having a background of economics. So I really like the theory of economics and how economics can be applied the world over and how it impacts different political and social conditions all over the world.

12:22
But at the same time, I don't want to, you know, I'm not like I told you, I love people, I love interacting with people. I want to see how my knowledge or how my interest in learning more about economics can help people. So that's when I'm struggling to really find out what I can do next. I have taken up the internship in human resources just so that I can get more experience in in the in a people facing role.

12:50
But my subject of choice is still economics. Understood, understood.

13:01
This is very helpful and you know now that you shared so much with me, I think I can definitely start taking you through some sections in the report to give you a deeper understanding. So again, like I said, if you have any questions, any clarifications, please feel free to help me. Right? Sure. I mean, sorry, please feel free to interrupt me. Please feel free to get those clarified. Okay.

13:26
Sure, I just want to say one thing that I found this report really amazing and I think there are a lot of things that reflect about my personality, but I do also see that there are some things that I've never even thought about. So maybe as we come to those pages, I would ask you those questions. Absolutely, absolutely. And I'm happy you said that because that's the purpose of the report. You know, when we administer this tool and we give people this report.

13:56
The thought is never to tell people, you know, this is who you are, this is who you will only be, here is why you are bad or wrong. The intent is to provide people with a greater self-awareness, a greater awareness of their behaviors, their motivators, some things they might enjoy, some things they might not enjoy. And there will be some parts in the report where you feel, okay, this is something that may be very true for me, it will resonate very strongly with you.

14:22
versus there may be some parts in the report that you don't agree with and that's perfectly fine. That's perfectly fine. Please, you know, voice those concerns because again, this is a process of discovery, a process of self-awareness. Absolutely. Thank you so much. Thank you, Vinoda. So, to give you an overview of the report, if you come to the table of contents and you know, you read some of the sections over there, this report will basically tell you about the how and the why.

14:52
of yourself. The how is indicated by the behavioral continuum. What are some of your behaviors? What are some of those patterns that you tend to display? How would you prefer to do things if you were left to your own devices? There is also the motivational continuum, which will tell you the why of your behavior. It will tell you what are some of those values, those motivators, those driving forces.

15:19
that really lead to some of the behaviors that you demonstrate. So today we'll only look at how and why. There are sometimes I get a lot of questions about skills which is more of the what. We can get into some part of that but this report is not going to tell you again like I said what you're good or what you're bad at. Please please keep in mind right there's nothing that we can we should not try to label it as good or bad. We should see it as these are our strengths that we could leverage.

15:46
And these are some opportunities for us to improve upon. Sure. Yes, sir. Thank you. And please, Vinoda, you don't have to call me sir. You can call me Ajit. That's perfectly fine. Otherwise, I'll feel older than I already have. No worries. Thank you. Yes, Ajit. Yes, understood. The last few sections of the report will give you very specific insight in terms of how should other people engage with you through communication. What are some of the ways?

16:14
you can create an ideal environment for yourself, as well as what are some of the potential challenges or opportunities that you may need to overcome. Wonderful, yes. Great, I'm really looking forward to all of this.

16:30
So I'll just explain the behavioral continuum first. I'll explain what it is, how it came about, and then I'll talk to you about what your results mean. Okay? Sure. So the behavioral continuum is based on a model called the DISC model. This was created by a professor of business and psychology named Dr. William Marston. He was a very interesting man. He actually created the first lie detector test.

16:59
Okay, and that's still used even today by various law enforcement agencies. So in 1928, he had written and published a book called The Emotions of Normal People, where he looked at people and found that there were different patterns of behaviour that were emerging. So if I could ask you, you know, come to the behavioural continuing page in your report, you'll see some very colourful graphs, about four colourful graphs, something red, yellow, green and blue.

17:30
Yeah, yeah, they're quite colorful. Yes, yes. These were the four factors that Dr. Marston created. The red bar represents a factor called dominance. Dominance is how we choose to approach problems and challenges. Okay. When we look at dominance, we can see there are two sides to it. There is a direct versus a reflective.

17:57
This just indicates a different approach. So for example, someone who is direct will be a lot more quick to solve problems. They will want to assertively, quickly, efficiently move towards problem resolution. Versus people who are reflective, maybe a little bit more cautious. They may take a little bit more time to understand the situation before they move forward with a solution.

18:24
Again, there's no right or wrong here. It's just what your preference is. The direct people are more, as the word says, direct when it comes to solving problems and challenges. The reflective people might be a little bit more, as the word says, reflective or cautious when it comes to solving problems and challenges. Sure. If we look at the yellow bar, this is the influence factor that was described by Dr. Mastin. And influence, if you look at the right-hand side,

18:54
It's talking about outgoing. So influence is how we respond to people and contacts. So outgoing people are a lot more extroverted, a lot more friendly, trusting. They can be very persuasive when it comes to people and contacts. On the left-hand side though, we see the reserved factor. And reserved are people who might be a little bit more skeptical, a little bit more factual and logical when it comes to dealing with people and contacts.

19:23
So they may prefer to look at some information, get some data presented to them when it comes to people in contacts. Okay. Any questions so far? No, no, it's fine. I'm making, I'm taking note of my score while you're speaking so I can imagine, you know, all of this that you're saying right now. Thank you, thank you, Ajit, please proceed. Okay, okay, absolutely. And I'll come to your interpretation as well, okay? Sure.

19:52
When we look at the green bar, this is called the steadiness factor and this is how we respond to pace and consistency. So people on the right, the steady people are a lot more methodical, deliberate. They want more consistency in their life. They operate at a deliberate pace and they don't want a lot of fluctuation and change. They want consistency. The dynamic people on the left hand side.

20:19
They are a lot more, as the word says, dynamic. They're very flexible. Some cases, they may be a little impulsive. They are very comfortable with a high pace and a lot of variety in their life. OK. All right. The last bar, which is the blue bar, is called the compliance factor. Compliance is how we respond to procedures and constraints. OK? So on the right-hand side here, you see that we have precise.

20:49
and precise people are very accurate, very process and quality oriented, right? They're much more systematic when it comes to procedures and constraints. On the left hand side, we see pioneering, these are people who are a lot more innovative, they're comfortable exploring, they are much more independent. So with regards to procedures and constraints, they might create their own procedures. They may not like to be limited.

21:16
by certain systems, they might be a little bit unsystematic in their way of approaching things. Right. That means they may look at the newer way of doing things, they may try to create their own kinds of systems and processes, they'll pioneer in a particular direction. Okay. Alright. These are the four factors, the dominance, influence, steadiness and compliance. Right.

21:44
Typically we see that dominance, the direct people and in compliance the precise people, these are more focused on tasks, but the influence, outgoing people and the steadiness, steady people are a little bit more people oriented. Both this level of task orientation, people orientation, even the level of extraversion or introversion will change depending on the scores and the side on which you fall.

22:14
Okay. The last thing that I will make note of is you can notice that there are some scores in a circle and then you can also see a star with a score in it and there will be some small arrows below each graph pointing in a particular direction. Right. Right. So the score in the circle indicates your natural score. What I mean by this is your natural score is who you are when you can be yourself, when you are in an environment that you're very comfortable with.

22:44
It's your unconscious behavior. It's how you would choose to behave if you were given complete freedom. The adapted which is in the star is how we are changing our behavior based on the environment that we are in. So maybe when you're in college or when you're at work or with certain groups of people, you may adapt or change your behavior consciously because you realize

23:13
This is something that the environment wants from me that is different from who I am. So you are willing to adapt your behavior in these cases. The adaptive behavior is typically something that it will change almost in every interaction depending upon the interaction that you have you might adapt your behavior a lot. The natural behavior is typically something that stays consistent it might change but it will change very slowly over time.

23:41
Typically it takes about maybe two or three years for us to see some changes. What I can personally tell you is that the highest or the strongest style that we have tends to remain with us. This can change, this can change at the time of significant life events, you know, marriage, birth of a child, loss of a loved one, death in the family, you know, having to move to a completely different country and job. Okay.

24:07
Maybe if you are shifting from your home place to another place, right? These are some things that can change the natural style because it's a significant event. Understood, yeah. Any questions, any thoughts so far, Vinora? No, but it's very interesting. So I just want to clarify that you're saying that the natural style could change in the event of a particular situation like you mentioned.

24:35
But it may change to a totally different graph, right? Not the adapted graph or something like that, correct? Yes, it may change. It's not an adaption. It's your, because of that intense experience that you go through, it can significantly change your natural graph, can completely become different, right, in the course of that significant event. Understood, understood. Thank you. Thank you so much.

25:00
The COVID pandemic, for example, is one significant event where I've seen people's natural graphs change because it's put a lot of pressure on people. There's a lot of challenges that they're now facing. Right. Right, but these kinds of instances can result in a change to our natural graph. Sure, sure, understood.

25:22
Superb. So now I'll help you understand what this means for you. Okay. Yeah. So look at this graph. Okay, we'll first take the red bar in terms of problems and challenges. In your natural score, you are 58 on direct. Okay, this means that with regards to problems and challenges, you'll be a little bit more focused on the task. You will be more comfortable, you know, quickly resolving the problem.

25:53
You want to be efficient, so you want to reach the end goal quickly so that you can move on to the next challenge. Okay. Okay. With regards to the yellow bar, and I'll first talk about your natural style and then we'll come to your adaptive, okay? Sure. But it's far more important to understand your natural behavior because with the adaptive we can flex, we can change our behavior. Right. Okay, so in people and contacts, your natural score is towards the side of outgoing.

26:22
and this is a score of 94 which is a very high score. Again, I'll use these words high and maybe moderate but this does not mean good or bad. It's just telling you your preference. Okay, but it's too high I feel right for like economics as my subject and if I'm going to have such a high score and outgoing, I'm just wondering right now.

26:48
Well, I think this ties into what you said earlier, which is that you want to use economics to influence people, to have a better impact on people. So when we look at the kind of match like that, we'll actually look at a combination of your disc and your motivators. Okay, so don't worry about that. Don't worry about that. Even if you have an influence that is more outgoing, it's something you can definitely work with. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you.

27:17
When we look at influence, you're more outgoing with people. You're very persuasive. And that's why I think you mentioned you have a lot of friends. You enjoy making friends. You enjoy spending time with people. Right. That's because you're more outgoing with respect to people and contacts. Okay. Nice. Wow. Okay. When we look at the green bar, okay, with base and consistency, you are more dynamic. So you enjoy some variety.

27:43
You don't just like doing the same thing over and over again. You enjoy a little bit of variety. And you're comfortable picking up the pace, ramping up the pace to move at a slightly faster pace of work or pace of whatever, whether it's your studies or whether it's any activity that you're doing. Right. OK. And the last factor, procedures and constraints. You are more pioneering. You have a score of 85 here, which is a pretty high score, OK?

28:10
This means that you're far more open to, you know, creating your own processes, being a little bit more independent to look at newer ways of doing things. Okay? Okay.

28:23
Look at this graph, your primary style, your highest style is the outgoing, right? You can see that score is at 94. So it is definitely your strongest preference, right? That outgoing outgoing style on people and contacts. If we look at the secondary style, which can you see is the second highest score here, Vinora? Pioneering. Absolutely correct. So you have a primary style of pioneering.

28:53
a primary style of outgoing, a secondary style of pioneering. What this means for you is that because that outgoing factor is so high, there is a very strong extraversion and people orientation that we see coming out. That means that you are again more outgoing with people, you are more persuasive, charming,

29:22
You enjoy forming relationships with a wide variety of people. There is also some task orientation because you see that this direct factor is at 58. So there is some task orientation that we can see. But the people orientation is coming out much stronger. Is that good or bad? I'm sorry, I know in the beginning you mentioned. It's just your preference, right?

29:51
more people orientation, you have a little bit of task orientation as well. As we get towards the end, we'll see if there are certain things you may choose to work upon, right? And we'll discuss those together. We won't just infer it from looking at this graph. Okay. Okay. Okay. Then yeah, then it makes a lot of sense. All right. Yeah, we look at a much more holistic picture. We look at your disc plus your motivators, right? And we'll really blend those together to give you a personalized insight. And then you can pick up from there what you may want to improve.

30:21
done that. Excellent. Sure, sure. When we're looking at your natural style, you're more optimistic, fearless. You also can be in some situations a little non-demonstrative. And if you are pushed, you may be quick to anger. It's not all the time, but sometimes if somebody's really, you know, pushing you and getting and pushing your buttons and getting on your nerves, you might demonstrate some anger.

30:48
Any thoughts on this Vinoda? Anything you'd like to share or any experience that you've had which you can share about or you know looking at this? What are some of the things that are coming to your mind? Definitely, I think that this is quite true of me. Honestly, I feel that I am quite task oriented but when it comes to you know when people give me excuses, I'm just thinking of a project that I recently did.

31:14
where I was leading the team to complete the project and few of my classmates did not help out even though their names were assigned by our professor. So I went out there and did the entire project by myself. So I don't know where that would come out from but I really did not say anything to them because I did not want to offend their feelings too much or I thought you know just let's just get done with this.

31:43
So would you say that would be the more direct coming out there and maybe pioneering also because I just went ahead and boldly submitted it without anybody's approval. That's something that comes to mind that I have recently done.

32:02
I think that's one, a very good example to share. And two, I think you picked up the right factors. There was a more direct that came out over there to say, let's just get it done. And the pioneering also to say, you know what, even though these people have been assigned, if they are not contributing, I'll go out and get it done. Right, right. And also, yeah, I do get angry or quite, if someone is not doing what I've asked them to do for a long time, like at home.

32:31
if I've asked my sister to, you know, kind of clear her space out and because I want to work there and I just, you know, snap at the end of the day, I get quite upset quickly. And also what you said about my people and contacts, like, you know, the influencing factor, like I told you, I like reaching out to people, offering them opportunities, seeing what their skills are, whether it will match the profiles that my company has, you know, to hire.

33:00
So all of those, I think the outgoing side of me helps me to get that work done for sure. Cool, I think these are some really nice linkages that you're making, Vinoda. Okay, okay. Yeah, this is helping me also understand myself a little better. Thank you, thank you very much. Super, super.

33:25
Yes, so what I can say is if you if you look now if you come down a little bit there is a page called where engagement begins Okay, and and this helps us really get a little bit of a deeper understanding, right? Because up until now i've i've been giving you my interpretation. There is a pre-work process that I follow to do this right, right, but when we look at This where engagement begins it gives us certain characteristics or qualities that you may possess. Okay so one you will

33:55
I'll give you a summary of this, you don't need to read through the entire thing. You can absolutely do so, but I'll give you a quick summary. One, when you're talking with people, you'll use gestures, you'll be optimistic, you'll convey a lot of confidence. You may tend to look more at the big picture and you enjoy using your people skills to facilitate engagement with others. So whether this is in the classroom or whether it's in a project.

34:22
you will use your social skills and your ability to engage people and excite people. Right. You will look more at what the group has in common rather than focus on the differences. Right. Yeah. Sometimes you may get feedback that you know, you may be a little talkative. Right. Yes. You will solve conflict through communication. You want to be transparent and communicate with people openly. Okay.

34:49
You want to pull the group closer together and you are a very friendly person. So you use that friendliness to keep the group engaged, to keep people engaged, even if it's a negative situation. Right. OK, yeah. One thing that did come out, which might come up later in the when we talk about the development, is that at times when you look at the big picture, you might sometimes miss out on small details. OK.

35:19
What do you think about again what I've shared so far? What are some of your thoughts? No, everything that you've said is quite true because if I look at my videos of me presenting in the class or even stage performances, of course, all of this comes into play. And it's like I was telling you about this project recently where nobody was talking to each other properly and still it had to be submitted on time.

35:46
I still, even till date, I try to get that group together. I keep sending WhatsApp messages on the group. But like you said, I might come across as talkative because I'm one of the only people doing it. But I like to keep people together through communication, which is very true. But I'm trying to think of now the mistakes where I would have missed out on detail. So when you were saying that, I think,

36:15
Maybe my focus in my statistics class, for example, I tend to make mistakes because I've not paid attention. I've not done all the steps. I skip steps. And my teacher, my professor, allots marks for steps as well. That, I think, is one area definitely that comes out there. Because I think I know. I anyway know it, right? So why should I just write all the steps? That's my.

36:44
I think that is an area I really need to focus on and understand that it is important for me to reach my goal of getting good marks.

36:55
Absolutely. And I think you've given some superb examples here. Superb examples here, Vinora. When you talked about, again, following the steps and doing everything in that very precise manner, right? If we look at your graph, we see that you are a little bit more on the pioneering side, right? Right. And this is what could be causing some of that challenge. So we'll talk about that later in terms of how you can actually go about improving that. But

37:22
Anything else you'd like to share in this regard? Maybe are there any situations that you face that might cause some frustration or irritation? I feel honestly, I feel very bad when I'm ignored. I come to class with a bright idea or I'm the one who's answering correctly and my professor just says, yeah, okay, and she moves on to the next. I feel, I don't know, I feel really bad and

37:49
because I feel bad about it, my whole day goes bad. Then I'm angry with everybody, I'm upset, and everyone can see that I'm upset. And I don't like being this way. So I don't know whether it's from my behaviors or what really is the problem, why I feel, why I behave like this.

38:09
Understood and I think that's a factor of the outgoing right they don't like being rejected especially in a social setting right and that can cause a lot of stress a lot of unhappiness or dissatisfaction. Oh okay so like so is there a way I can change that or because people tell me don't feel bad like I don't know how to not feel bad I do feel bad you know that.

38:35
and that triggers off a very bad set of events and then I end up having a really bad day. Right.

38:46
What I can just recommend to you over here, Venora, is that I would say that it's not about not feeling bad, but understand that perhaps your professor also, they may be under some pressure, there may be some challenges that they're facing. They may not be having the best day. Right. So it's not possible for them all the time to give you that recognition, to give you that praise. Okay. Maybe they had a really difficult class before this. So

39:15
I'm not saying that, you know, it's, I'm not saying don't feel bad. If you're feeling bad, you're feeling bad. It's not something we should try to suppress in ourselves. But understand that maybe the professor was not doing that intentionally. Maybe they were on a tight schedule. Maybe they are having some personal difficulties. So, you know, it may not be that it's you who was the problem, or they may not be directing that at you. It may just be something that happened because they were not having so great a day.

39:44
and it's not meant to be ill intentioned towards you. Oh yeah, I never thought about it that way actually Ajit. Yeah, that's a really good perspective. Sometimes I'm so focused on myself and my feelings, I tend to not understand what really happened. You know, I need to understand that it's not just about me. And like you rightly said, yes, they are wonderful people, very good people and

40:09
I will try and look at it differently. In fact, I am writing it down in my diary also right now that you know, I will look at this differently and see if that changes how I feel. Thank you. Thank you for this very useful tip actually. Thank you so much. No problem, Bunor. I am happy to help.

40:31
Now, we've talked so far about your natural style. Okay, this we can see there are some changes happening in your adapted style. Okay, so in the adapted style, with regards to problems and challenges, we first see there is a little bit of dilution happening, where you are going from being direct to being a little bit more reflective. So you're being a little bit more cautious. You're being a little bit more calculated when it comes to solving problems and challenges.

41:01
Okay. With task orientation also again there is a little bit of dilution happening because again you're moving from direct to reflective. This does not mean that task orientation is going away but there definitely is some dilution of this. Okay. With respect to your people and contacts right there is very very very little movement. It's going from a 94

41:29
to a 93 and that's hardly any movement that's happening there. So you're still seeing a good amount of extraversion. You'll communicate persuasively, you'll engage with others. Your dynamic, if we look at the green bar of pace and consistency is also staying around the same area. It's going from a 64 to a 62.

41:54
So you might enjoy again a more moderate pace here. You seek some variety and with pioneering, you can see that this is reducing by quite an extent, right? It's going from 85 to 72, all right? And what this might indicate to me is that you are adopting a slightly more balanced approach. So you might not always be going out and doing things the way you want to do them. In some cases, you might be able to bring a little bit more balance in your approach. Okay.

42:22
Okay, you mean like when I'm in an environment with my teacher or my boss or my seniors, I wouldn't like dare to do something different. I would like calm down a little bit, reflect about it and then maybe ask for permission before I can try out something new. Do you do that? Do you find that you're asking for permission sometimes with your teachers and your boss? Yeah, I don't like doing it very much but I...

42:50
at least with the boss because I know that at the end of the day, he has to give me a good review for my job to count in my CV and in my resume. So I always ask my boss first, you know, if it's okay, like first, initially, when I joined them, I would just schedule interviews without asking him if he was even available. And I would go ahead and tell him this is the interview schedule. But now I've learned and you know, and now I'm kind of like you say adapting, right? So I'm adapting.

43:19
asking them even for my teachers, my professors and teachers. I always, you know, check with them first and then go ahead and, you know, go ahead with my CR responsibilities. I was assistant CR last year. This year I had to give it up because I'm doing my internship. But I remember that, you know, I'm not that bold when it comes to adapt in the adapted environment. So that's very true.

43:47
direct go to reflective. This is why we're seeing the pioneering coming a little bit more towards the middle. And I think again, that's some really good intuition that you have Vinora, because you picked up the like some wonderful examples, right? Which can help us understand why this adaption is happening. I think the example you gave of your boss where you would just schedule interviews, definitely there might've been a time when, they might've come back and said, you know, you can't just do this, I'm also busy.

44:15
Yes, I cried about it the whole weekend but then the following Monday I realized that I can't be doing it. So yeah, it happened. And I think, you know, again bringing in that consideration for other people, that consideration that you know, especially in an organization or in an institution like a college, they have certain ways of doing things for a reason. That's why they've been around for so many years, right? Right, right, you're right. You're absolutely right.

44:44
Okay, this is good. The good thing I'll say is that, you know, it's not like, you know, there's a massive adaption that's happening, because when there's a huge adaption like that, it can put pressure on the person. Do you feel right now that I mean, definitely there is a lot of load on you, but do you feel right now that this is a very stressful high pressure environment? Oh, no, not really. In fact, I like it because I draw my energy out of people interaction. If I were to do a

45:13
desk job like a couple of my peers have taken pure research as an internship program. I can't imagine doing something like that. So it's pretty much who I am. I like doing what I do. But again, like economics is my favorite subject. So I have to learn to balance my need for people as well as my love for the subject. Absolutely. Yeah.

45:43
Any other thoughts, any other queries or observations that you have here, Vinodha? No, I think it's all good. I've understood it. Actually, I read the report last night. I really love reading. So I read the report and everything that I've highlighted as a question mark or you know, I've put some comment, you have already explained it to me quite well. So now it's all making sense to me perfectly. Wonderful. Wonderful. Good to hear. Good to hear. Okay.

46:12
So in that case, what we'll do is we'll come ahead and we look at the driving forces of the motivators. Okay. Okay. So when we look at the motivators again, I'll just give you a quick background. This was created by a gentleman named Edward Spranger. He was a German psychologist and he had originally proposed six key motivators. And this was back in the 1920s and the version that we have today almost 100 years on.

46:39
is a much more modernized version, right? Where we've looked at the six categories that he came up with, but again, we've looked at them as having a left and a right to give us a more detailed, specific understanding. Right. So with the motivators, what I'll ask you to do is if you come to the motivational continuum page, okay? Here you can see there are about six very colorful bars. Yes.

47:07
Yes, I love color. You know, I really like the way these charts are because it's very exciting. OK, that's nice. I'm happy to hear that that's a good feedback for us.

47:23
When we look at these six bars, the original motivational factor defined by Dr. Spranger is given there. So we have knowledge which is the red or the maroon bar, utility which is yellow, surroundings which is purple, others which is I would say that's more of like a aqua or a green, right? You have power which is the black and methodologies which is the grey. Right. Now, with respect to knowledge.

47:52
there can be two possible valuations of knowledge. Some people may be more intellectual with regards to knowledge, and these are people who will want to study, who will want to pursue knowledge, who want to gain as much information as possible. Versus the instinctive, which is the left-hand side, these people are valuing knowledge when it is necessary. So they may not study or try to research or get into deep details.

48:20
When the time comes, they will look for the necessary knowledge and they will use that to address whatever challenge they may be facing. Okay. When we look at the next bar, which is utility, utility is talking about what is the kind of return or result that we are achieving for ourselves. The resourceful which is on the right hand side is talking about

48:46
The need for return on investment. So these are people who value efficiency, practicality. They value some kind of reward coming to them that if they put in an effort, they want to see a reward coming back to them. Okay. On the other side, we have selfless and the selfless valuation of utility is those people who are doing things for the sake of doing it, for the sake of achievement.

49:12
These people are not looking at how efficiently can I do it. They are looking at doing things with the best quality, following the best process. Oh, okay. Okay. They do it for the sake of achievement. Right. Okay. When it comes to surroundings, surroundings is the kind of environment we have around us. Okay. Harmonious people will typically want a very peaceful, balanced, very harmonious environment around them. They want...

49:39
They want to allow, they want to express themselves. They are much more interested in personal growth and fulfillment. And fulfillment is the key word there. Fulfillment is meaning they should have a good experience. They should feel good about it. The harmonious people will look at things in a much larger picture in totality. Whereas on the left hand side, we have the objective people. The objective people.

50:06
are a little bit more functional in nature. Okay, so they value functionality, they value objectivity. When they look at their surroundings, they want to see, you know, what is the function or purpose of having this. So if I have a bed, the bed is to sleep on. If I have a chair, the chair is to sit on. Right. If I have a phone, it's to make calls, it's to send messages. Correct. So the objective people are looking much more at the functionality of their surroundings. Right.

50:38
When we look at the next bar of others, on the right hand side we have altruistic. Altruistic is the value of everyone is deserving an equal opportunity, everybody needs to be able to come to their maximum potential. So altruistic value is those who want to help others and they want to help everyone. They want to help animals, they want to help the environment, they want to help other people around them. As the word altruistic says, they want to better

51:06
the world around them. They want to make a better life for the people around them. Right. Like my sister, right? Yes, I was thinking. Possibly, yeah, that's something she may be very passionate about. Yes, yes.

51:23
On the other side of others, we have intentional. Intentional is people who will help others but for a very specific purpose. They will not go around helping everyone. They will help those who are motivated, who are excited and engaged to grow.

51:45
Okay. Okay. When we look at the black bar of power, commanding people are, as the word says, they want control, they want command, they want to feel like they are in charge of their destiny. So they want a lot of personal recognition, public recognition, public, you know, that kind of status is what they value versus the other left-hand side you have collaborative and collaborative is a lot more about sharing control, sharing ownership.

52:15
Okay.

52:18
Lastly, when we come to methodologies, the right hand side of structure is talking about a very traditional, you know, valuing traditions, valuing history, valuing certain set ways of living or defined ways of living. Whereas the left hand side of receptive is a lot more open to new ways of living, right? New processes, new kinds of methodologies. Okay.

52:45
The one distinction I will make over here is that one, with the driving forces, these are just your values. There is no natural or adapted style here. This is just how you value things. Additionally, the disk and driving forces are unique factors. And bringing in a little bit of statistics, you'll understand when I say that there is a low correlation between them. So it is not that this one disk style will always have this kind of motivator.

53:15
There is no one to one match like that. OK, each person is unique. They will have different combinations of this disk and driving forces. OK. All right. I know I'm just looking at my score and I see that I have a zero and structured. Right, right. Yeah. So what what does this mean, Ajit? Like, oh, you know how?

53:41
Can I get myself to like structure or should I work on that? So that's not something that we try to do again. We try to tell people that you know if you have these kind of values that's perfectly fine right. Try to see the benefit occasionally of this and in this case and I'll come to this when I do but since you asked the question about structure right it's not about forcing yourself to like structure. It's about seeing that in certain situations.

54:10
maybe a structured approach might be a little bit more beneficial. It might yield a better result for you. Right. It might be a safer option to go with. Oh, okay. Yeah. Or maybe I can, you're saying like, look at the advantages of structure when it comes to a certain goal, keeping my goal in mind. Yes, absolutely. So I'm not saying you have to do this all the time, right? Otherwise that might create a little bit of frustration, right? But in certain situations, maybe using a structure can give you a better

54:38
can help you achieve your end goal a little bit better. Okay. So, when we are looking at these scores, right, you will see that there is a score in the circle and then there is a smaller circle with a number. Yes. Okay. These numbers indicate the rank of your driving forces. So, when we look at the ranks, we see that receptive is coming out as rank number one. Right.

55:08
Right. Okay. Resourceful is coming out at rank number three and objective is coming out at rank number four. These are your primary driving forces. These are the things that you value very strongly and if you look at receptive and intellectual, right, especially receptive, that's something that you really, really value very strongly. Okay. So, this is a case where these are things that if you are allowed to pursue these values,

55:36
It will give you a lot of satisfaction. It will keep you a lot more engaged in your college work or in your work on the job or in your social or personal life as well. Right. Okay. So typically what you'll see is that you like challenging the status quo. You may look for opportunities to enhance your system of living. You enjoy thinking outside the box, but at the same time,

56:03
You have this receptive, but you also have the intellectual. So you want to identify all possible information. You want to consume information from many sources and you will seek to create engagement with others by sharing your learning, sharing new information with them. Right. Okay. You're very comfortable offering your time and your talent, but you do want to see a return on that. And I'm guessing, you know, that's one of the things why you may have taken up the job already because...

56:30
You want to see that if you're making an effort, if you're learning something, you want to be able to apply that learning to gain some return for yourself. Yes, very true. Okay, good. With the objective, and the objective is it's the fourth driving force in the primary cluster. This basically means that you may see the world in compartments and pieces.

57:00
So you are able to sometimes, you may be able to isolate certain personal issues and focus on your engagement, on your work or on the objective or task that's in front of you. In some cases, now if this objective was very, very strong, we might not have seen this, but in some cases, if the personal issue is something that's really distracting or really dissatisfying for you, that can cause some disruption.

57:30
OK. OK, OK, that's where I think you were mentioning right about your teacher when they don't give you that required recognition or when they, you know, put you down in front of everyone else. Right. Yeah. That's when it becomes like a big dissatisfier because you remember you do have an outgoing disc style. Right. Yes. It's your primary style. So you don't enjoy being rejected or you don't enjoy being, you know, put down, especially in a public environment. Very true.

57:59
Yeah, it's very hurtful and like yeah, because you know, and is it because my objective is, you know, on its rank four, right? So maybe if my objective was rank one or two, I would have probably seen myself dealing with that better. I don't know. Is that possible? Probably, probably that that is a high possibility that if your objective was maybe a little higher, right, you would kind of be able to compartmentalize that and move forward, right? But because it's the fourth rank.

58:28
there may be a little bit of, I would say that personal rejection won't sit very well with you every time. Okay, okay. Wow, and all that is like right in front of me. It's amazing. Good, good, I'm happy to hear that. So you definitely, and you're looking at your primary cluster, that receptive factor, right? You will adopt different systems, right? You will use data.

58:58
and knowledge and you will actively pursue knowledge to enhance your systems. You will also make them fairly efficient. So you will want to see a more practical way of doing things and you can focus on the objectivity of those systems. If we look at the factors altruistic, commanding, collaborative and intentional, you will see altruistic is rank five, commanding is rank six.

59:28
and intentional is rank 8. These are your situational factors. These are factors that you are okay with. They are neither motivating nor are they demotivating for you. If we look at the factors harmonious, this would have rank 9. If we look at selfless, this has rank 10. Instinctive, this has rank 11 and structure, this has rank 12. So, when you are forced

59:57
to value these factors. This can cause disengagement, dissatisfaction, irritation, frustration. So you know, that's why I said, don't force yourself to value structure. See the benefits of it in the places where it's required. Because if I tell you today, Vinora, this is exactly what you're going to do. And here's how you have to do it. And you can't explore, you know, any other different way of doing it. Right?

01:00:24
That's something that would be quite frustrating for you because you'd feel like you're being limited. You're not being allowed to explore. You're not being allowed to look at the better way of doing things. Yeah. That's why I would suggest, you know, when looking at this structure factor in particular, right? Make sure that you are using it when it is or leveraging it when it's necessary. Perhaps it's a more efficient way of doing things. In fact, what you can do is you can also look at the existing structure

01:00:54
modify that existing structure into something that you're more comfortable with. Right, right. Any thoughts that you'd like to share here, Venora or anything, any experiences that you'd like to share or any clarifications that you may have? Oh, no, I understand what you're saying. So I'm just trying to relate and put this, you know, whatever you're saying, I'm trying to see if I can align it with my life.

01:01:19
So for example, we have assessments that we get regularly for which we have to do case studies and present our case study. So even though those, you know, there are certain norms in which they have to be presented and certain outlines, the fact that I can, you know, decide what goes into each paragraph is what makes me happy. But the outline itself I follow because it has to be followed.

01:01:47
And then again, I can't change it, right? But I would have loved to change it now that you're thinking, you know, you're you've said all this is making me think like many times I've thought of changing my entire curriculum. Outline or you know, I sometimes don't like the way certain themes are presented to us, you know, we could do it differently, especially in literature. So I think this comes from my receptive angle, the fact that I am constantly looking to see how

01:02:17
we can do things differently and that might not be very useful all the time for sure. And this is one thing I was going to share and I'm so happy you pointed it out right. Change is good right it can bring a lot of benefit it can help us but change for the sake of change can actually cause a lot of chaos. Right, right. Okay, I mean it will make not only will it make the people around you to make their life more difficult it may make your life also very difficult. Okay.

01:02:46
So when you are thinking about changes, I'm very happy to hear that, even though you wanted to change the outlines and the course curriculum, you didn't go ahead with that, right? Because that would have been a very difficult place for you to be in as well as maybe your professors and your colleagues in your classmates as well. Yeah, yeah, of course they wouldn't allow me to. At the most I could supply some feedback. But like you're saying, I used to always wonder why am I...

01:03:14
Why am I looking to change it? You know, the first thing when I get any kind of outline to work with, I think anyone else or somebody maybe with a more structured approach would look at it and say, wow, you know, let me start work. But the first question that comes in my mind is why is it like this? Why is the structure like this? You know, now I understand what is it that makes me the way I am. So that makes sense to me now.

01:03:39
And that's something that, you know, like I as a coach, I can kind of help you understand some of those things. Right. To the best of my ability, I can try and help you understand some of those. Again, know that there's been a lot of research. There's been a lot of data that has been considered when making some of these. Okay. So introducing a very drastic change, maybe very extreme for other people.

01:04:05
So while we will definitely try and cater to your motivators and your disc style, we have to also consider the other people in that equation. True, true, that's right. I also had a question about this objective, Ajit. So, you know, in my house the other day, my sister brought this artifact that she picked up from Tulasri. You know, she went out on a college trip.

01:04:32
and she just hung it on the wall. But it really does not have any use or purpose. It's just there. And, you know, I was quite irritated by it because it did not really have anything to do with anything. It was, at least if she had to pick up like, you know, a useful, whatever, table mat or anything else or sandals.

01:04:53
I would have been more appreciative of it. Do you think it's because of this objective motivator that could, you know, I'm wondering, you know, why did I dislike that now that you said I need to see function of certain things in my environment that is coming to mind as an example. So is that a valid example? Yes, I think that's a great, great example that you could share, Vinora, because again, if it's something that, you know, if it's something that's there, you want to see what is the purpose of that. And...

01:05:22
The purpose that I would say of that object, maybe it's not something that's useful in the traditional sense, but it may be something that brings your sister some form of anchoring, maybe she will look to that to kind of brighten up her day. So it's serving some purpose for her. For you, it might not serve any purpose at all. But for her, it might serve some purpose as a reminder of how good of a trip it was, some of the learnings that she gained from there.

01:05:51
Some of the experience that she might have had. Wow. Okay. I really didn't think of it that way. I think through the whole conversation, this whole knowledge or the realization that I need to pay attention to other aspects also of what is important to other people is also coming out for me as a learning. So thank you for that. Thank you for pointing it out. Okay. Happy to hear that. Do you feel that today,

01:06:18
Again, are there any places where you're feeling a lot of discomfort, some frustration? And if there's anything that you want to ask, maybe I can try and help you out with that by providing a suggestion. So today, do you feel, and I'm guessing again, you know, you mentioned already that with some classes, right, with the curriculum, with the outlines, there is a little bit of frustration, but you can see some of the value behind it. Yes. Outside of that, is there anything else that you'd like to share or anything you'd like to clarify?

01:06:45
No, not right now. I think, you know, this is a lot of information that I have been given in addition to the report. So I would definitely like to go back and reflect upon it and think of, there are of course issues in my personal life with my friends, there are ups and downs. But I think if I take whatever you are saying to me today and I look at it now, keeping this in mind.

01:07:11
I will find more awareness and I will be able to see how I can do better in these situations. So you know I will need time to just go and look at all of that. Maybe tonight before I go to bed I will go back to my diary and add in all this and look at it together and see how it makes sense. Absolutely Vinora and I would say you know you can take your time. I don't expect you to you know tomorrow you know you have to give me a summary of this.

01:07:39
entire conversation, not at all, not at all. Okay. What I would say is let's look at a timeline of two weeks from now and we can actually reconnect, you know, where you would have had the chance to, you know, now that you've seen this, you can observe yourself, you can observe other people, right. And you'll be able to understand some of this a little bit better, right. Why you may be responding a particular way or why you may be feeling a particular way. Right, right. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you for that.

01:08:07
So we'll definitely if you're okay with this, if you're comfortable, we'll set a timeline of let's say 10 days or maybe 14 days and we'll come back on the 24th of October. Right. Sure. And we can I'll take all your queries, right. I would say if you have anything in the middle, you have my email address, so you can definitely send me an email. But let's plan to catch up in about two weeks if that's okay with you. Yes, absolutely. And that's a good thing because if you give me a timeline, I will.

01:08:35
you know, get to work on it because I don't want something as important as this to just fizzle off or fade away. So thank you. I will mark that date down in my calendar, 24th of October. Absolutely. Yeah, I'll send you a meeting invite also. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. Very good. So coming to the last few pages of the report, Vinora, and this is where, you know, we are really bringing the disc in the driving forces together. Right. If you come to this page called

01:09:04
You will see there are some do's and don'ts of communication here. All right. Take two minutes and just read through some of these and can you let me know, you know, what are some of the ones that, you know, you'd really strongly resonate with? Yeah, I'm just looking at one and I think you just got me to do this, which is commit to my next step. You know, the second point here is get Vinora to commit to her next step.

01:09:29
You just got me to commit to the meeting or two weeks down the line. I think that really worked for me. That's definitely something that that I need. I'm just going through the dues. Take your time. OK, so there is a one dues says understand her unconventional nature.

01:09:55
But to be very honest with you, Ajit, my professors, some of them are not very understanding. They seem quite aggressive wherein they would like me to be the way that they want, you know, and the way they perceive me or the way some groups of people perceive me makes me feel that they don't like my way of living. So I don't feel that...

01:10:21
they will understand my unconventional nature, even if it is put to them or they are requested to. I feel so. So should I keep that as a point, or should we just not consider that people will always look at me like that? I think this is again, very, very good way of looking at it, right? Because I don't expect that when I share this with people, that they will be able to change immediately.

01:10:50
Some professors you may see that it's not making any sense. It's actually creating more frustration in them when you expect them to understand you a little bit better. You can try presenting it to them once, maybe twice. But if after that you don't see that change, then I would say that then it's not really you to adapt to some extent. You may need to align to some of the structures that they're giving. OK?

01:11:19
I would keep the point, you know, this is something you can share with your friends, you can share with your sister, with your parents, right? So it's not just about the professors, you can share it with some professors as well who you feel might be more amenable to this. Right. And that's something I can also help you with where, you know, if you like, we can even do that conversation together with some professors. Oh, really? Okay, that would be that would be nice. As long as as long as they understand and they do not.

01:11:48
you know, cut my marks or something in the class because that fear is always there that, you know, in the class they might treat me differently if I bring it up with them. So you will manage that, right? What I would say is, you know, you can try it once and then if it's becoming really extreme, maybe I can step in. But again, you're absolutely right. I don't want to step on somebody else's toes and step into their subject area.

01:12:14
If you find that maybe that person is being a little bit more rigid, then you might need to align, you might need to adapt yourself a little bit. But we will try to keep it within limits. So in cases where you can explore, you should explore because that will give you satisfaction. And some cases where you need to be a little bit more in line with the system, you can do that, right? Because you know, there's a very clear objective that you're trying to achieve.

01:12:40
There is a very clear reward that you'll get at the end of it when you're able to get good marks and get a good job for yourself. Yes, yes, absolutely. Yeah, and even in the corporate world or wherever I'm going to study next, there would be different kinds of people everywhere. Like, I cannot expect everyone to understand me. So that's a good point. I should learn to adapt as well. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So for dos, I think...

01:13:09
creating a positive welcoming environment definitely and again getting me to commit to my next steps preferably in writing and definitely understanding my conventional nature unconventional nature will definitely help. Starting the conversation with something stimulating and fun not always sometimes I feel even if the conversation starts on a low pace or is boring

01:13:35
Eventually I find ways to make it interesting for myself. So that's okay. Very good. Wonderful. And in don't sir, definitely I do not like it when decisions are left hanging. I want clarity and closure. So that is definitely a point that I want to use. Also so when it says give.

01:14:00
give her your opinion, don't give your opinion until and unless asked. I'm just thinking like, what if it is an important opinion and I need to hear it? So I don't mind that intervention. So it's fine if people give me their opinions also. That's all right. Then we won't keep that. We won't keep we won't consider that point. I think, again, you are now you're slowly opening up to understanding other people a little bit better at a slightly deeper level. And I think that's perfectly fine. We don't need to consider that if you feel that something that

01:14:30
you know is important for you to have. Yeah, yeah. So that and also definitely yes don't be short or cold or tight lipped like I told you I translate that into either rejection or refusal or just non-cooperation and then I am not able to communicate with the person anymore. So, I would yeah, definitely include that in the don'ts. Yeah, absolutely.

01:15:00
That's all. Superb. I think again, these are these are good points and we can definitely look at, you know, one with the communication dues, can you share this with some people, maybe not with all people, because you do need to adapt sometimes? Yes. And two with the don'ts, right? What I can advise over here is you can definitely share this with people, but not all people may have gone through this kind of intervention, right? They may not all have gone through this kind of program. Yeah.

01:15:29
So one of the things you need to and you can actually teach yourself is one, you can manage your response that if somebody even if they are short or cold or tight-lipped, right, you might still be able to overcome that feeling of rejection. Okay. And this again, I would suggest not doing it all the time, but do it sometimes so that you're building that capability in yourself, right? Because in the world today, unfortunately, people, there will be some people who you interact with who will be very short, who will be very, you know, just focused on the bottom line.

01:15:59
Right. And they may not have had the benefit of going through this program. OK, so one, you can see how you can continue to move forward and achieve the results you want, even if somebody is behaving this way with you. And two, you can see how to curate the environment around you and that person so that they are not getting short or cold or tight-lipped.

01:16:23
Okay, when we talked about leaving decisions hanging, what I've done is I have proactively come in and said, okay, let's meet at this time. Yes. What you could have done is say, you know, in the next discussion, what you can then come back and say is Ajit, this is the decision that we need to take. These are the three critical decisions, right? Right. Start curating the environment around you. You can start managing the environment around you so that it's giving you your results and your objectives and that it's, you know, it's in a way that you can also enjoy it.

01:16:52
Right, right. Wow. Yes, I have made note of that. So next time I will remind you of your meeting further and I will send out the meeting request. No, no, so I'll send out the meeting request. What I would like you to do is in the next meeting, in our next discussion, you have to come to me and say, these are the key decisions that we need to make and help anchor me to the discussion. Oh, okay, okay. I understood now. All right. I'll do that.

01:17:21
What is something I can do to practice that even now, Ajit? So even when we have our project or work or even in the office, I can go ahead and take ownership of sending out the minutes of the meeting or the bullet points discussed or something, right? Yes, yes, absolutely. Those are some things that you can do. The other thing that I can recommend over here is keep a to-do list, right? Otherwise, keeping everything in our heads becomes a little bit difficult, right? So you mentioned you have a diary or a journal.

01:17:51
Yes. You can have a weekly to-do list, right? These are the things you need to get done, right? Right. What will be the return that it's going to give you? So if you fill up a particular job, right, then that's going to give you a good feedback, a good review. If you complete this project, that will give you a good grade, right? Right. I have a diary. I have the framework for the to-do list, but I use all the other pages to write other things. But those pages are blank.

01:18:20
So starting today, like you said, I'm going to make a column for what I can do and a column for the returns it will give me in terms of my goal as well as if it is monetary, what kind of monetary return I would get. Absolutely, yeah, this will definitely keep you a lot more motivated in whatever objectives you're trying to achieve. That's a big one, yeah, I will definitely do that. Thank you.

01:18:46
So now should I look at the peak productivity tips? Yes, you look at the peak productivity tips again. What are some of, you know, you don't have to select all of them, right? What are maybe one or two or three of these that you feel will really help create an ideal environment for you? I like this compartmentalizing projects to help group function. You know, this one should do this, two people should do something else, the third person should do something else.

01:19:16
That really makes me happy because I know everyone's using their time effectively and we are all going to come to a definite good at least you know some some kind of beta product that can be then reworked on I don't like it when everyone works on the same thing together. So that point definitely the last point which is Yeah then

01:19:44
And this can be an expectation that you can set up in order. So whenever you're getting into any kind of group assignment or group project, set that expectation that, you know, this part of the project, I can take it, or this part of the assignment, I can take it. So if there is a part that involves presentation, you have very strong verbal skills, right? So maybe you can lead the presentation, or if there is some interviews that need to be conducted, you can lead that part of the assignment. Okay, all right.

01:20:13
Yeah, that's a good one. So a forum to participate in meetings with others regardless of surroundings. This also is something I agree with that, you know, we don't need to have a particular structure or a particular setup or infrastructure for a meeting. We can meet anywhere. We can have a discussion anywhere. I'm open to like, even a video discussion or, you know, a virtual discussion.

01:20:43
they are quite strict about where we need to meet. Like it has to be in a meeting room or it has to be in a particular area. So, which sometimes is a little, sometimes it's nice to work in another environment, like take the discussion to the cafeteria or to the campus. So, I like that. Okay. Yeah, I feel the third point can just be an environment that rewards communication of changes in the system.

01:21:14
Okay. Yeah. So, if there was a reward for introducing an interesting change, it would really motivate me to do something more progressive for my environment, for my colleagues, for my peers. Yeah. Okay, that's good. I think, you know, what you can look at is over here if there are any new initiatives coming up in the college, right?

01:21:41
where there are certain new systems and new processes being set up. In fact, I'll make a note of that and if I can hear of anything, I'll make sure to tell you. Because this is something that would be very engaging for you if you can work on building building up some of these new systems. That's something that would be very exciting for you and you can probably again that's you know if you work on that project or initiative you'll get like at least a certificate of participation right and that can even help you when you're applying for a job in the future.

01:22:11
Absolutely, that would be great. Thank you. Wonderful. Okay. I think the last thing we'll come to, Vinora, is the identifying obstacles. This is where, as you were saying, what are some of the things I need to improve upon? This is basically saying, what are some of the things that might stand in your way? What are some of those derailers? Up until now, we've talked with a more positive tone in terms of enablers.

01:22:38
But what might be some things that you want to change? So again, take a little bit of time, read through these and can you tell me what are the top two or three things you want to look at? Okay, so one is...

01:22:54
Yeah, so I do lack awareness about my own weaknesses and those of others. In fact, this entire conversation has been an eye opener for me in many aspects. So I need to start looking at others and myself more, more, you know, with a more deeper thought process, with a greater understanding. Like you've shown me through this conversation that my professors might have a baggage of their own.

01:23:22
or my sister might have bought the ball hanging because it means it has a function for her. It has a purpose for her. So I've never thought about it this way. So the first thing is that could be a big obstacle that I lack awareness or even I lack, yeah, I just lack awareness. I want to be aware, but I'm not. So now I will start that journey. And- Can I give you a tip over here if you don't mind? Absolutely, please. Whenever you're in a situation,

01:23:51
Don't suppress the emotion that you feel but before responding. Just practice pausing or reflecting before you respond. Too often we have a tendency to just jump forward with our response immediately. In some situations, this is very helpful. In some situations, if you can just kind of practice before you respond, just try to understand what that person said, why they might have said it. What was the emotions behind them when they said that? This will help you to build up your awareness.

01:24:21
And as I said for the next two weeks, you know, don't try and change anything. Just observe people, you know, as you observe them, you start seeing these patterns, these trends clearly coming out. Right, right. Definitely. That's a great tip. And I do I do tend to, you know, respond, react instead of responding, which I will, you know, now that pause should really help. In fact, I'm going to write down pause and stick it in front of me on my study table as well to remind me. Don't do it every time.

01:24:50
Don't do it every time, do it sometimes. Yeah, get into the habit of it and then it will become something that comes very easily to you. Okay, okay, thank you. And yes, so it says that one of my obstacles could be that I under instruct and over delegate. So I just give people responsibilities without guiding them specifically as to what needs to be done. Yes, definitely I can see that happening now with.

01:25:17
which is why maybe I ended up doing the project by myself. I need to go back and check with my peers, honestly, like, you know, maybe have a one-on-one conversation with each of them. Probably they felt that I was delegating the work instead of being clear about who should do what. I'm going to relook at that situation and it's quite an obstacle if this is something that is, you know, even drawn out through my graphs and the report. So I want to add that there.

01:25:47
Yes, I do trust people indiscriminately. So I will not assess anything if someone's good to me and they flash A charming smile and they are talking to me. Well, you know, I would tell them all about my life and Yeah, I do. I I do trust people indiscriminately and it has Backfired quite a few times and I haven't learned too much from that experience. So that's an obstacle as well I need to really you know

01:26:13
take it step by step and not just jump into relationships or just even conversations for that matter.

01:26:23
Absolutely. And I think again, that's a very mature perspective to take, right? To be able to admit that to oneself and to be able to honestly say that I think that's really good, Vinora. So again, yeah, absolutely. You know, don't don't jump into anything because that that can you know, it's the look before you leap kind of philosophy that applies over that. True. Okay. Otherwise, what will what will happen is, you know, you might you might be in a case where

01:26:49
you've you're in this relationship or you perform this bond with the person and and and it's not a very healthy or in some cases it could even be a toxic relationship right yes absolutely so definitely you know one one thing that i can advise over here that also relates to the under instruct and over delegate right yeah try to understand the capabilities of others try to understand what is it that they can do right how is it that they can support because if you are having to do anything that's also not a good thing

01:27:17
Yes, true. Try to understand what they can bring to the table and the best way I found to do this is to very non-threateningly just ask people what do you think you can do? Yeah, yeah.

01:27:31
Absolutely. I will practice that.

01:27:36
Yeah, I will. I'm making note of everything you're saying. Thank you.

01:27:43
Don't worry, I'm also making note of this and I can share this with you as well. Oh, okay. That's great. Wow! I have so many things to reflect upon, so many points of discovery for me. Thank you. Thank you, Ajit. I'm happy to hear that. Happy to hear that, Vinod. And I think, again, you know, it's not that people are bad. I think that there is a severe lack of understanding about...

01:28:09
about ourselves and then that translates to a lack of understanding of others. Okay. And it makes life much more difficult than it has to be if I'm being very honest with you. Yes. So what I would say is the main takeaway from this is you know you're starting now on this journey of self-awareness, you're starting on this journey of self-discovery, right. Don't try to make it a complete you know overhaul change. Okay. Don't try to completely recreate or you know give yourself a complete makeover. It does not work like that.

01:28:39
In fact, I would be wrong if I asked you to do that. Okay? It's very unfair to you, right? There are so many pressures that you're facing. You're in college, you have exams, you have assignments, you're even working as an intern, right? Don't try to make massive changes, okay? What I would suggest is for the next two weeks, right? Take your time. Just reflect a little bit on the situation. See these behaviors, see these motivators manifesting. Okay?

01:29:07
Again, don't try to change anything. Just observe them in yourself and when you can observe them in other people. Okay? We will connect back after two weeks and then we will actually set out in a direction saying, you know, here are maybe two or three things that we can look to change. Like I can tell you when I first did this, okay, my direct that on the red bar on problems and challenges, my direct was extremely high. And that led to a lot of conflict, not just in my personal life, but in my professional life as well.

01:29:37
Okay, so there was a case where I had to bring in a little bit more diplomacy, but I had to do it gradually. And one of the first things I did was actually just start listening to people a little bit more, to pause, to ask some clarifying questions. Okay, and that really helped me manage some of my tendencies, which were not actually helping me. In some cases, I actually damaged certain personal relationships that I had because I was so aggressive.

01:30:06
Right. Wow. Take your time with this. Feel free to reach out with clarifications. If we can't do a call, send me a mail or a text, I will absolutely respond to you. But this is not the end of our journey. It's just the beginning. Thank you. Thank you for your support Ajay. My pleasure. I'll send you these notes after our conversation. Sure. If you have anything else that I can help you with, any other questions that you had or any...

01:30:33
You know any clarifications or anything else you wanted some guidance on? No, nothing at all. Thank you for your time and I really appreciate all the inputs and I'm going to work on it and I will make sure that I am successful with all of that you've provided me so that you know your time is also rewarded. Don't worry about me and my time, right? And also don't just worry about the success of it, right? The goal of this is to create a more fulfilling life.

01:31:02
Success is definitely one part of it. But you should also feel happy. There was this term that people keep up with YOLO, you only live once. Yes. You only do live once. So you should as much as possible. It's not that life will always be happy and fun. There will be some difficult moments. But if we can make the life more fulfilling for us, for ourselves by crafting and curating the environment around us, by managing ourselves to achieve the best results.

01:31:32
That's when it can become a little bit more enjoyable. Absolutely agreed. Thank you very much. Thank you so much for your time Vinoda. Again, we'll meet now on the 24th. If there's anything that you need in the middle of that, please shoot me a mail. I'll definitely get back to you. Surely. Thank you. Thank you Vinoda.

